FAQS


Please include:
1. Quote from the website
2. 2. Link to the website
3. The FAQ -- as you want written on the web page






Where Exactly Does Chocolate Come From


Chocolate comes from the cacao tree, which is a very delicate and sensitive. It needs protection from wind and requires a fair amount of shade under most conditions. This is true especially in its first two to four years of growth. A newly planted cacao seedling is often sheltered by a taller growing tree for shade. Trees such as banana, plantain, coconut, rubber or just tall forest trees are very popular choices. Once established however, cacao trees can grow in the complete absence of shade but they must have well distributed rainfalls and rich, well-drained soil. Cacao trees usually are started in nursery beds where seeds from high yielding trees are planted in fiber baskets or plastic bags. The seedlings grow so fast that in a few months they are ready for transplanting, container and all. When a cacao tree is full grown it usually measures 15 to 25 feet high, though it has been known to reach as high as 60 feet or more. How old the cacao tree can get is not known although there are individual cacao trees known to be over 200 years old.  In three to five years the cacao tree will start to produce flower clusters, then flowers; the cacao tree is very colorful with these pink and white 5 petaled blossoms. Thousands of these flowers form, which must be pollinated to produce what is called a pod. Unfortunately, though, only 1 in 500 flowers goes on to produce a pod. The pod is known as the fruit of the cacao bean tree. Green, maybe maroon, these pods contain the seeds that will become the cocoa beans. 
 
 
Facts about Preparing the Cocoa Beans


When leaving the out the beans, the fermentation will last from 3-9 days. It is a pretty simple “yeasting” process in which the sugars contained in the beans are converted to acid, primarily lactic acid and acetic acid. Visually, a layer of pulp starts to form around the beans; it almost looks like bubbling. Here the beans become darker, less bitter and begin to develop the chocolate flavor. During the high temperature of the fermentation process, the germ of the bean is killed and enzymes are activated to form the compounds which produce the chocolate flavor.


The beans are then dried to prevent mold and mildew. In some countries, the beans are simply laid out on trays or bamboo mats in the hot sun. Otherwise, the beans can be dried indoors with hot air pipes. During the drying process, which takes several more days, the beans are turned frequently and continually examined for foreign matters or flat, broken beans. When completely dried, the beans are packed in sacks, inspected by buyers and shipped to factories for the making of chocolate. 
 
http://morkeschocolates.com/chocolate-facts/